# Energy Demand Forecasting

#### Abstract
In this study, I aimed to forecast kW, a dependent variable, using three electricity-related variables: KWh, kVARh, and kVAR. These variables measure energy, power, and reactive power and are commonly used in power system analysis. I used different models to predict kW, evaluated their performance, identified the optimal model, and developed the forecasting function for kW.

#### Introduction
Time series analysis and modeling process:
1. understand dataset
2. stationary test
3. time series decomposition
4. feature selection
5. predictions by different methods and models
6. diagnostic testing
7. final model selection
8. forecasting function


#### Description of Dataset
There are three independent variables in this dataset, including kWh, kVARh, and kVAR. kWh (kilowatt-hour) is used to measure electricity consumption. One kilowatt-hour is equal to the energy consumed by using one kilowatt of power for one hour. kVARh (kilovolt-ampere reactive hour) is a unit of reactive power of a power system. Reactive power is power generated by capacitors or inductors for regulating voltage and current. kVAR (kilovolt-ampere reactive) is a unit of reactive power used to measure the reactive power in a power system for maintaining stable voltage and preventing overload in the power system. The dependent variable in this dataset is kW (kilowatt), which is used to measure the rate at which electricity is used. One kilowatt is equal to a power consumption or production rate of 1000 watts per second.
KWh and kW describe the actual power consumption and demand of the power system. kVARh and kVAR describe the reactive power in the power system, which is an important factor in regulating voltage and current. In power systems, it is sometimes necessary to adjust reactive power to maintain stable voltage and prevent overload.
The dataset consists of data collected every half hour. before analysis, I set the data type of Time_stamp as datetime, sorted the data and set time as index, and removed the serial column.


#### Summary
To sum up, ARMA(2, 2) model fits the best in this dataset. Also, I found that the performances of base-model are similar in this case. However, there are some limitations. For example, there are too few independent variables in the dataset, which may limit its predictive power. Moreover, there is a problem of collinearity among the independent variables, which can lead to unstable and unreliable estimates of the regression coefficients, making it difficult to interpret the effect of each individual predictor variable on the outcome variable. In addition, collinearity can lead to overfitting of the model, which can result in poor predictions on new data. Addressing these issues can lead to improved performance of the model.

#### Reference
Zahid, A. (2020, January 24). Smart Meter Energy(kW) demand forecasting. Kaggle. Retrieved May 4, 2023, from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/asimzahid/smart-meter-energykw-demand- forecasting
